What's up, my friend? Thank you so much for taking the time
to listen to the Life in English podcast. I'm your host,
your spiritual guide, your sensei, Tony Kaizen, and I've got
a great episode for English learners and teachers alike,
because after teaching English online for the past five
years, I've noticed a few things that students and teachers
can do to make their classes more productive and enjoyable.
And those things are what I'm gonna share with you in this
episode. Alright, my friend, let's start with the English
learners.
Here are some things in no particular order that you should
do if you want to get the most value out of your English
classes. So before you have the class, before you start, one
thing I recommend you do is set clear and detailed goals for
yourself. Because if you don't have a destination, you will
never arrive anywhere. You might be moving and expending
energy, but if you're not moving in the right direction,
then you're not making progress. In fact, you're doing the
exact opposite, right? And if you haven't chosen a
destination or a goal for yourself, there's no way of
knowing if you're moving in the right direction. So you must
determine what goal you're trying to reach. Be as specific
as possible. Your teacher is gonna need to know exactly what
your goal is if they're going to help you achieve it. So
think about why you are learning English. "I'm learning
English for my career" is not an answer. When I ask you why,
I want you to tell me what truly motivates you to achieve
this goal specifically. Are you trying to qualify for a
better job so you can support your family better? Are you
trying to get a visa for some exchange program? Did you
recently fail an interview because you couldn't speak
English well enough to do the job? Is it a lack of
vocabulary that's the problem? Or is it something more
psychological, like anxiety or stress? Did you recently move
to the US with children who will be learning in an
English-speaking school? Do you want to learn English to be
able to be involved in their academic career? Do you want to
be able to volunteer at their school? You see what I'm
saying? What will you use the language for? Which areas do
you struggle with the most? Are you willing to study every
single day? Do you have that capability or availability? You
see what I'm saying? Also, you need to think about what kind
of teacher you want cos there are tons, literally tons of
talented teachers out there who are more than qualified to
teach you the English language. However, each teacher has a
different methodology, personality, accent, presence, sense
of humor, and price. But please do not let their price be
the only factor you consider when choosing a teacher. That
is a terrible strategy. Okay? The right goal with the wrong
teacher can be a recipe for disaster, in my experience. So
here are some questions you should consider when thinking
about what kind of teacher you want. Do you want a teacher
from the US or maybe Australia or England? Do you want a
teacher that specializes mainly in conversation or mainly in
grammar and writing skills? Do you prefer a male or a female
teacher? Would you like them to have a particular accent? Do
you respond better to lively, energetic teachers or soft
spoken and calming teachers? Do you want someone who has a
particular set of interests? Do you need a teacher who also
speaks your native language? Do you need a teacher who
charges a certain amount of money per class? Having the
answers to these questions will make it a lot easier to find
and choose the right teacher for you. You'll save tons of
time and money by not having to experiment with a bunch of
teachers who were simply never right for you in the first
place. You'll also save those teachers lots of time, and
that's just as important. But now let's assume you found
your teacher. You're taking classes and you're feeling good,
right? Let me talk to you about a few things you should not
do when you're having classes. The first one. You should not
be pretending that you understand when you clearly do not.
Please stop doing this. You know what I'm talking about.
You're having a conversation. Someone says something you
don't understand. And instead of stopping them and saying,
"Excuse me, what does that mean?" You say, fucking nothing.
Like you pretend to understand what's happening, right? Mm
hmm. Mm hmm.
Yeah. Yeah. And you force yourself to laugh a little bit
because you don't want to make the situation awkward or
uncomfortable. You don't want to ruin the conversation. And
then you sit in silence for a few seconds to see if they're
going to keep talking. Because if they keep talking, then
they don't have to focus on the fact that I didn't
understand what they just said. Right? You know what I'm
talking about. But you're talking to a native speaker, my
friend. You really think they can't see in your face that
you didn't understand what was said? Of course they can. So
what's the point in trying to hide it, bro? There's nothing
wrong with not being able to understand someone's words. It
just means that you need them to be explained to you in a
different way. So if you don't understand, just say that,
because that's the only way someone will know that they need
to teach you something. And that is the only way you will
learn, my friend. Okay?
Something else you need to stop doing is using your teacher
like a dictionary. A lot of y'all are guilty of this as
well. You arrive in class and you do nothing but ask your
teacher to translate phrases, right? "Teacher, teacher, how
do I say, 'aproximadamente'?" "Teacher, how do I say, 'o
saco vazio não para em pé'?" "Teacher, how do I say, 'abre
la puerta'?" Translating everything literally is not only an
unproductive use of time, it's also not the purpose of a
teacher. That's the purpose of a translator, which you can
find online for free. Your teacher's purpose is to explain
what you don't understand about the translation you went and
searched for. Your teacher's purpose is to guide you down
the path, not walk for you. So take the time to practice
English on your own, search for answers to your questions on
your own, and then call on your teacher to see if your
understanding is correct. I suggest you do it this way
because you typically value and remember things you had to
work for much more than the things that were simply given to
you. In other words, you'll learn and internalize things
better that way. Okay?
Another thing you really need to stop doing is waiting until
the day of class to practice your English. You know what I'm
talking about. You know you're doing it, bro. Stop that
shit. Okay? Having one English class per week is much better
than zero classes per week, let me start by saying that, but
if you're not practicing your English during the rest of the
week, one class per week is gonna have little to no effect
on your ability to speak and understand English, or at least
your progress is gonna be painfully slow. You need to be
practicing and learning on your own every day if you really
want to improve rapidly. So you should be consuming content
in English, taking notes and writing down your questions, so
when you get to your weekly class, you can get all your
questions answered and your doubts cleared up by your
teacher. Just imagine if football players only played the
game once a week. Like that would be a terrible thing to do
if they wanted to be champions of the league, right?
Footballers practice multiple times a week to stay in shape
and to get prepared for the game at the weekend. Like
without training....excuse me...without training
consistently, there's no way they could perform at the
highest level every weekend. And it's the same for you.
Without speaking English consistently, there's no way you're
gonna speak it at the highest level when the time calls for
it. Now at this point, if you're taking classes or at least
thinking about taking them, you might have identified with
some things that I've said so far. You might even be
thinking about some other ways you can have better English
classes. But before we continue, I'd like to tell you about
our sponsor for this episode. Life in English. Life in
English is a media company teaching the world English to
creative content. They offer private English classes and
online learning community, podcasts, and video lessons, and
many other resources for learning the English language
through the art of communication. So if you're looking to
improve your spoken English for work, travel, or just daily
life, visit www.lifeinenglish.net for more information.
Now I'd like to talk about the teachers. And this one's not
as easy because I...I generally, you know, have no interest
in trying to tell other professionals how to do their job.
You know, every teacher has their own way of doing things,
their own beliefs and methodology. And, you know, just
because I do things a certain way doesn't mean that another
teacher should do them that way. So I'm not necessarily
going to say what a teacher should do or shouldn't do before
they have classes and things like that. But it's it's
actually really similar to a student, like a teacher should
also identify before they start what their goals are, like,
you know, what type of students you want to teach, what
level would you like to work with, you know, adults or
children or a particular gender or people from a particular
country who speak a particular language? How much would you
like to earn per hour, or would you rather do courses
instead of, you know, individual private classes? I think
it's important for any professional to define their goals
before they get started or at least have some idea of where
they're trying to get before they get started, you know, and
what type of students they want to work with or what type of
work they want to do. But apart from that, I can't really
say anything about what teachers should or shouldn't do. All
I know is what I should or shouldn't do, but I will still
make some recommendations on things that all teachers should
stop doing during classes if they truly want to help their
student have a more productive class. But I just want to
emphasize this is just my opinion. But if you're a teacher
listening to this, hit me up and let me know your thoughts.
And if you're a student, send this to your teacher and ask
them to hit me up and let me know about their thoughts. But
anyway, here are some things that teachers should stop doing
in their language classes. The first one is stop jumping in
to rescue your student. Let them struggle through the
sentence until they ask for help. As a teacher, it's natural
to want to help your student in any way you can. So
naturally, when your student gets stuck and you know what
they're trying to say, you just want to give them the phrase
they're looking for. And there isn't necessarily anything
wrong with that. But in my experience, I've noticed that
students tend to learn things more effectively when you let
them arrive at their own conclusions. If your student get
stuck and ask you to translate a word or phrase for them in
their native language, try getting them to describe the idea
of the word or the phrase. If they describe it in a way that
a native speaker would understand, then give them the phrase
they're looking for. But if the explanation doesn't make
enough sense, then ask them to try explaining it in a
different way. Or search on Google for the, the translation.
And once they find the translation, you can tell them if
it's correct, how to use it naturally, how formal it is, and
all those things, right? When you do it this way, you can
help your student without doing any of the work for them.
Now, this obviously isn't the only way and maybe not even
the best way to teach but the point is, I'd like you to
remember that teaching someone to walk on their own two feet
should never involve you walking for them. Allowing them to
struggle through the process is better for them in the long
run because making it easy on them in class will only make
it harder on them in real life. Another thing, teachers, to
stop doing is talking so much about English. Just talk about
life, you know what I'm saying? There are countless hours of
free content online explaining how the English language
works, and not only is it generally uninteresting to talk
about, it's also not what an English learner really needs to
know. Unless, of course, they're trying to pass a test that
requires them to know it, like the IELTS, for example. But
imagine paying for dancing classes and arriving in class
only to watch videos of other people dancing or having
conversations about dancing. That would be weird. And you
probably want your money back. You didn't pay for dance
classes to sit around and talk about dancing. You paid
because you wanted to learn how to dance. English students
generally don't pay for classes because they want to talk
about English. They pay for classes because they want to
learn how to use English naturally and confidently. And most
students don't live in an English-speaking country, so they
already spend most of their free time consuming content in
English and or about English. That's generally all they can
do, or at least that's what they believe. So when they get
to class, what they really want and need is to practice
using the language, not consume more information about it.
And why not just talk about interesting things like common
and uncommon interests or life experiences, pop culture,
things like these. This allows your students to learn in a
relaxed, natural environment and use the language the same
way they would in the real world. And they end up learning
how to communicate in English without realizing it the same
way they learned their native language without realizing it.
You see what I'm saying? Now, another thing I think teachers
should stop doing immediately is treating their students
like children. I'm not sure why some teachers, like, choose
to treat grown ass men and women like toddlers. And just
because they have the speaking ability similar to that of a
child doesn't make them children. So smiling abnormally
often or using baby talk and a silly voice is something you
would never do if you were speaking to a native you just
met. So why the fuck are they speaking to adult students
like that, bro? I don't get it. Now, maybe some teachers
want to make the extra effort to create a safe environment
for their students so they can feel comfortable enough to
speak and make mistakes. I get that a hundred percent, but
there's a difference between safe and fake. People in the
real world aren't gonna treat them like babies or have the
level of patience that language teachers have. I personally
don't appreciate being talked to as if I'm a child or as if
I'm stupid. And in my experience, most other adults feel the
same way. I just find that if you're straight with people,
they tend to appreciate it more than you trying to be nice
to them, you know? Now, this, of course, is just my opinion
based on my experience. Everyone's different so take what
I'm saying with a grain of salt, obviously, you know? Now,
there are a bunch of things that you could start or stop
doing if you want to have better English classes. These are
just a few that come to mind when I reflect on my experience
teaching and learning languages online. So if you're an
English teacher or learner, I'd love to hear about your
perspective on this subject so feel free to send me a
message on Discord, or hit me up on Twitter - @tonykaizen,
or shoot me a DM on Instagram - @englishwithkaizen. But
that's it for now, my friend. I hope you enjoyed this
episode. Thank you so much for your time and your attention.
Please remember, if you live your life in English, you will
learn English. Please remember if you practice English
consistently, you will learn English.
Please remember if you invest in your education, if you
invest in yourself and your skills, if you stay dedicated,
my friend, get a good teacher, a good mentor, some good
friends, apply the right methods, there is nothing that you
cannot do.